HP folding
This project is about protein folding in the 2D HP Model, you should make the project in groups of 1-3 persons. The objective is to fold a set of HP strings.

Problem
You can:

(1) Implement the 1/4 approximation algorithm for folding a hp-string in the 2D HP Model. You program should take a hp-string as input and output the energy of the computed fold for this string. It should also be possible to output a representation of the computed fold in a format that can be used by hpview3k.py (or hpview.py if you are using Python 2), see below, such that its energy can be validated.

(2) Implement another approach for finding good (hopefully near-optimal) folds in the 2D HP Model. The approach can for example be an algorithm extending or refining the folds found by 1/4 approximation algorithm, or it can also be any other heuristic that you can think of or find in the litterature. All that is required is that you can explain your approach such that it is reproducible by others. Your approach should take a hp-string as input and output the energy of the best found fold for this string. It should also be possible to output a representation of the best found fold in a format that can be used by hpview.py (see below) such that its energy can be validated.

You can use the small Python program hpview3k.py (or hpview.py if you are using Python 2) to print the fold of a hp-string in ascii-format together with its score. The fold can be in relative or absolute format. A folding in relative format is a sequence over f,l, and r, which describes the fold as a sequence of steps (f)orward, (l)left, or (r)ight. A folding in absolute format is a sequence over n,s,e, and w, which describes the fold as a sequence of steps to the (n)orth, (s)outh, (e)east, or (w)est. For example:

$ python hpview.py hphhhhhh ffffrrf 

h - p - h - H - h  
        *   *   |  
.   .   H - h - H  
                   
Score: 2

$ python hpview.py hphhhhhh eeeesww

h - p - h - H - h  
        *   *   |  
.   .   H - h - H  
                   
Score: 2

$ python hpview.py hphhhhhh eeeeswn

h - p - h - X - h  
            |   |  
.   .   .   h - H  
                   
Illegal fold after 7 steps
Benchmarks
Below are 15 hp-strings and the free energy of their optimal folds. The benchmarks are from http://www.brown.edu/Research/Istrail_Lab/hp2dbenchmarks.html.

 1: hhppppphhppphppphp -4
 2: hphphhhppphhhhpphh -8
 3: phpphphhhphhphhhhh -9
 4: hphpphhphpphphhpphph -9
 5: hhhpphphphpphphphpph -10
 6: hhpphpphpphpphpphpphpphh -9
 7: pphpphhpppphhpppphhpppphh -8
 8: ppphhpphhppppphhhhhhhpphhpppphhpphpp -14
 9: pphpphhpphhppppphhhhhhhhhhpppppphhpphhpphpphhhhh -23
10: hhphphphphhhhphppphppphpppphppphppphphhhhphphphphh -21
11: pphhhphhhhhhhhppphhhhhhhhhhphppphhhhhhhhhhhhpppphhhhhhphhphp -36
12: hhhhhhhhhhhhphphpphhpphhpphpphhpphhpphpphhpphhpphphphhhhhhhhhhhh -42
13: hhhhpppphhhhhhhhhhhhpppppphhhhhhhhhhhhppphhhhhhhhhhhhppphhhhhhhhhhhhppphpphhpphhpphph -53
14: pppppphphhppppphhhphhhhhphhpppphhpphhphhhhhphhhhhhhhhhphhphhhhhhhppppppppppphhhhhhhpphphhhpppppphphh -48
15: ppphhpphhhhpphhhphhphhphhhhpppppppphhhhhhpphhhhhhppppppppphphhphhhhhhhhhhhpphhhphhphpphphhhpppppphhh -50
Presentation
You (i.e. your group) should prepare a presentation of your work (6-8 minutes) for presentation in class on Friday, May 12. 

Your presentation must include (1)  a presentation of the folding method(s) that you have implemented, and (2) the best fold, and the time it took to find it, for each of the above 15 benchmark strings. 

Before Friday,  May 12, at 12:00, you must upload (via Brightspace) your presentation (in pdf) and a text file describing your best found folds for the 15 benchmark strings. The format of the text files should be:

1: "string 1" "your fold of string 1 in relative format that can be used by hpview.py" "the free energy of your fold of string 1"
2: "string 2" "your fold of string 2 in relative format that can be used by hpview.py" "the free energy of your fold og string 2"
[...]
15: "string 15" "your fold of string 15 in relative format that can be used by hpview.py" "the free energy of your fold of string 15"
For example

1: hhppppphhppphppphp flfrrflffrrflrrlf -2
and similarly for the remaining 14 benchmark strings.